Play with Capact (#99)
capactio/website: blog/2022-01-19-play-with-capact-via-cli.mdx

---
slug: play-with-capact-via-cli

> title: Play a bit with Capact!

Reviewer: Maybe "Take Capact for a spin"?

  ~~~ {~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ /  ===- ~~~
       \______ o          __/
        \    \        __/
          \____\______/
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="policy">

```bash
 __________________________________
< message: Never gonna give you up >
 ----------------------------------
    \
     \
      \
                    ##        .
              ## ## ##       ==
           ## ## ## ##      ===
       /""""""""""""""""___/ ===
  ~~~ {~~ ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~ ~ /  ===- ~~~
       \______ o          __/
        \    \        __/
          \____\______/
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
</div>

6. Get the Action output (TypeInstance). Copy the `id` field value:

	```bash
	capact act get hello -ojson | jq '.Actions[0].output.typeInstances'
	```

	Example output:
	```bash {3}
  [
    {
      "id": "08fcaa07-7846-47af-b6a7-7c3818c69656",
      "typeRef": {
        "path": "cap.type.capactio.examples.message",
        "revision": "0.1.0"
      }
    }
  ]
	```

7. Get the TypeInstance `value.message` field value:

   ```bash
   capact ti get {ID} -ojson | jq -r '.[0].latestResourceVersion.spec.value.message'
   ```

8. Delete the Action:

   ```bash
   capact act delete hello
   ```

> Let's consider another example, as life isn’t all sunshine and rainbows. Sometimes we need a more positively-colored message. Capact allows you to do it with ease ✨

Reviewer 2: It's just my personal opinion, but I would change that to something like:

```suggestion
What if you wanted to output a different message, that reminds you about a masterpiece song you can listen to endlessly? With Capact that's really easy ✨
```

(I'm not convinced to that as well, maybe we can find something else) 😄

To choose a different Implementation for the `say` Interface, we need to prepare a dedicated Policy. The power of it is that you don't have to change the main workflow. You treat the step as a building block and just swap it for another existing one.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think that's a great place to put this GIF (or different one) 😄 
![tenor-139575536](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7155799/151161102-51298f89-5500-4b8e-ae1f-af7a62d59a5f.gif)

Author: good idea, I also like that one 👍 
Other ideas:
1. ![no-more-training](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17568639/151320790-e2734cec-2c85-417a-9bf0-38e0c289dde9.gif)
2. ![shocked-happy](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17568639/151320819-fd4ac198-7211-4039-a3c3-2e66a05b19e5.gif)

I also created dedicated ones:

3. <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17568639/151320976-e74c6575-0698-47d0-afde-a43c597d62f1.gif" alt="drawing" width="450"/>

4. <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17568639/151321017-0ca30635-8d16-4d56-80fa-60ea68bad7a7.gif" alt="drawing" width="450"/>

let's also for others to decide :)

Reviewer 3: I like Star Wars meme #4

To test it, execute [steps](#steps) once again, but now select the **Policy-Changed Execution** tab.

## What is so special about it?

Our example was simplified to a minimum, but you could see that you can:

- chain different steps together,
- and more importantly, write once and swap implementation details with ease.

Capact is also great if you want to chain different tools together and keep the same entry point (UX) but that requires more complex examples. For now, we recommend you to take a look at our other examples described in the [**How can I get involved and learn more?**](#how-can-i-get-involved-and-learn-more) section.

> ## Behind the wall

Reviewer 2: I get the reference, but are you sure it has similar meaning as "Under the hood"? Please consult that with TW or some native Enligsh speaker, if possible 🙂

As you saw, you can use CLI to browse Hub manifests, create a specific Action for a given Interface and retrieve the output. CLI communicates with our Gateway via GraphQL calls, same as the UI (Capact Dashboard). You can read more in the [E2E Architecture](/docs/next/architecture/e2e-architecture) document.

> However, a more important question is, how did we change the output message?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, a more important question is, how did it happen?
```

  steps:
    - - name: get-message
        capact-action: examples.say # dynamic step, rendered by Engine based on the Policy.
    - - name: print
        template: print
        arguments:
          artifacts:
            - name: message
            from: "{{steps.get-message.outputs.artifacts.message}}"
    # ... trimmed ...
    - name: print
      inputs:
        artifacts:
          - name: message
          path: /tmp/message.yaml
      container:
        image: docker/whalesay:latest
        command: [ sh, -c ]
        args: [ "cowsay < /tmp/message.yaml" ]
```

</div>

The snippet above shows the most important parts of the Implementation manifest. In lines **4-7**, we declare the import, which is later used in steps. In line **12**, we use **capact-action** to make a dynamic step with a given Interface.

:::tip
Instead of providing the full Interface path, we use **alias** assigned to the imported Interface.
:::

As a result, our Engine and, in particular, Argo Renderer has an option to put there an Implementation that fulfills the specified Interface. Thanks to that, this step is swappable based on the defined Policy.

## How can I get involved and learn more?

> The [Getting Started](/docs/next/getting-started) goes into more detail about how to start with Capact and use its more-advanced features. There are also [Rocket.Chat](/docs/next/example/rocketchat-installation) and [Mattermost](/docs/next/example/mattermost-installation) tutorials that we keep up-to-date for you to walk you through using Capact in real cases.

Reviewer 2: Please search the whole document and remove all `/next` occurrences as we should redirect to the latest stable version. I know that the CI will probably fail, but still - put a TODO somewhere in PR desc or something, to remember about that before merge 🙂 

```suggestion
The [Getting Started](/docs/getting-started) goes into more detail about how to start with Capact and use its more-advanced features. There are also [Rocket.Chat](/docs/example/rocketchat-installation) and [Mattermost](/docs/example/mattermost-installation) tutorials that we keep up-to-date for you to walk you through using Capact in real cases.
```
